What do you do with risk?
We've talked about how to identify risk and how to measure it.
But what do you do about it?
Once you've identified that risk exists, what do you do?
The whole purpose of risk management is to understand and act on risk.
Traditionally, there are five ways to deal with risk.
We call these risk treatment.
The first is acceptance.
Accepting the risk without taking any further action.
It's acknowledging that it exists and doing nothing.
The second is modifying the risk.
This is implementing a control that lessens or changes the risk in some way.
Then there's transfer.
In most cases, cybersecurity risk transference means insuring against
the risk occurring through a cybersecurity insurance policy of some sort.
Or you can create a shared liability model with a vendor.
Then there's avoidance.
You can literally choose to avoid the risk by just doing something different altogether.
Then finally, you'll notice that I have capitalize marked in red.
The reason for that is that, capitalizing on risk,
very much relates to financial and business risk management.
Identifying for instance, a high risk investment and then choosing to attempt to
capitalize on that risk by investing even more resources is pretty common.
But security DRC is much more focused on the other four risk treatment methods.
Certainly there are times when an organization will accept security risk,
but there aren't really any examples that come to
mind where it's possible to capitalize on that risk.
Now, who decides what that risk treatment is?
I think it's one of the more interesting components of risk management,
because it's often a function of the organization's appetite for risk, it's maturity,
and it's maturity in practicing security hygiene,
it's size, and then collaboration with stakeholders.
Now, depending on the organization,
the controller risk owners,
may take a large part in deciding the best risk treatment.
Other organizations may see most of the risk decision-making to the risk managers.
Generally taking those recommendations of the risk managers at face value.
Then others rely on a collective effort really involving stakeholders to either reach
consensus or present the risk decisions to leadership for a final resolution.
For me, I think that collaborative approach is the most effective.
Leaving the decision in hands of risk owners potentially put
security decision-making in the hands of untrained individuals,
and then leaving it in the hands of risk managers can create a situation
where only a handful of individuals are setting the organization's security strategy.
Now, I mentioned that leadership are sometimes used for final risk resolution.
Even though you may choose to accept a risk or
modify it in only some slight way for instance,
those actions have to be recorded.
The reason for that is because sometimes you'll need
senior stakeholders to participate in the decision making.
You also want to make sure that your decision making aligns with
your organizational strategy and
your senior leadership and their involvement can help provide that.
Recording the risk, and then involving management can also
provide some temporary relief to risk management functions,
meaning that they can help write
management exceptions that may allow you not to address risk immediately.
Then finally, recording that risk helps showcase
that the risk management process in your organization is really mature.